#This file was created by <dagb> Thu May 20 14:26:46 1999
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass linuxdoc
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title
\added_space_top vfill \added_space_bottom vfill 
IrDA Utilities
\layout Author

Dag Brattli
\layout Abstract

The IrDA Utils package is a collection of programs, that enables the use
 of the IrDA protocols.
 Some user-space configuration is required in order to make IrDA work for
 your machine, and some IrDA features like IrOBEX is actually implemented
 in user-space.
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

IrDA is an exciting way of communicating with remote devices.
 IrDA uses infrared wireless communication so no cables are required.
 Speeds range from 9600bps to 4Mbps.
 The types of devices that support IrDA are LAN adapters, PDA's, printers,
 laptops, mobile phones etc.
\layout Standard

Linux-IrDA is a GNU implementation of the IrDA protocols specifications
 written from scratch.
 Linux-IrDA supports most of the IrDA protocols like IrLAP, IrLMP, IrIAP,
 IrTTP, IrLPT, IrLAN, IrCOMM and IrOBEX.
\layout Standard

Most of the features are implemented in the kernel, so you must enable IrDA
 support in the kernel before you can use any of the tools and programs
 mentioned in this document.
\layout Section

Getting started
\layout Standard

First of all you need to install the tools in this package.
 Make and make install should do that for you.
 By default it will install the files in /etc/irda, and in /usr/sbin.
 If you don't like that, you should edit the makefile.
 Notice however that /etc/irda is required by irmanager.
\layout Subsection

IRMANAGER
\layout Standard

To enable IrDA support in your kernel you must start irmanager.
 Irmanager is a program which is similar to cardmgr for the PCMCIA package.
 The normal way to start irmanager is:
\layout Code

# /usr/sbin/irmanager -d 1
\layout Standard

You should probably add this to your /etc/rc.d/rc.local file, so it's started
 automatically when you boot your machine.
\layout Subsection

IRATTACH
\layout Standard

The files in /etc/irda are used to configure the various services that are
 implemented by remote devices.
 The drivers file are however used to load and configure local IrDA ports
 on your machine.
 The drivers file is not very intelligent, so you need to know which IrDA
 port you have.
 There are currently two ways of configuring an IrDA port for your machine.
\layout Enumerate

irattach
\layout Enumerate

modprobe driver
\layout Standard

irattach is used if you have an IrDA port that functions like a normal serial
 port.
 Most IrDA ports are UART compatible for SIR speeds (9600-115200bps), so
 this should would for most machines.
 To start irattach you have to specify the serial port where the IrDA port
 is attached.
 So if your IrDA port is attached to the third serial port on your machine,
 then you have to specify something like this:
\layout Code

# /usr/sbin/irattach /dev/ttyS2
\layout Standard

If you have a IrDA dongle connected to your first serial port, then you
 need to start irattach like this:
\layout Code

# /usr/sbin/irattach /dev/ttyS0 -d <dongle>
\layout Standard

Where <dongle> is the type of dongle you have.
 Currently supported dongles are:
\layout Description

esi, for Extended Systems JetEye PC dongles
\layout Description

tekam, for Tekram IrMate IR-210B dongles
\layout Description

actisys, for ACTiSYS IR-220L dongles
\layout Description

actisys+, for ACTiSYS IR-220L+ dongles
\layout Description

girbil, for Greenwich Instruments, GIrBIL dongles
\layout Description

litelink for Parallax LiteLink dongle
\layout Standard

irattach uses the irtty module which connects to the Linux TTY and serial
 driver.
 This works well for most machines, but limits the speed to 115200bps (IrDA
 SIR mode).
 If you want higher speeds, you must use a special device driver for the
 IrDA chipset used by your machine.
 Currently there are not that many device drivers implemented, mostly because
 it's very hard to get the documentation, and the drivers are in fact quite
 hard to implement even if you are lucky and get the documentation for the
 chipset.
\layout Standard

If you are one of the lucky people which have a chipset that is supported,
 then you don't need to use irattach anymore.
 Now you just have to insmod the driver like this:
\layout Code

# /sbin/insmod pc87108
\layout Standard

This will add support for the National Semiconductors PC87108 FIR controller
 chipset.
 Visit the Linux-IrDA homepage or ask at the mailing-list to know the status
 of the various FIR chipsets.
\layout Section

Other programs
\layout Description

irdadump Is a program that displays all the frames sent, and received on
 the infrared link.
 
\layout Description

irdaping Makes it possible to try and ping a remote device using IrDA test
 frames.
 Not all devices implements support for test frames, so 
\layout Description

irkbd, Implements support for the mouse and keyboard protocol as used by
 the Tekram IR-660 infrared docking station.
 
\layout Description

obex, Is a user-space implementation of the IrOBEX protocol.
 The directory also has some example programs which shows how you can use
 IrOBEX from your applications
\layout Description

gnobex, Is the start of a IrOBEX client using the GTK+ and GNOME user interface.
\layout Standard

Have fun! 
\the_end
